Kannaur Lokesh Rahul, is a promising young batsman from Karnataka, who made his first-class with his state side and had a decent debut season in 2010-11. Though he was left out of the squad for the next season, Rahul returned for the 2012-13 edition of the Ranji Trophy. 

The 2013-14 season was a great season for Rahul and Karnataka as he topped the batting charts for his side and became one of the very batsmen to score more than 1000 runs in a season. 

This feat earned him an IPL contract with Sunrisers Hyderabad in 2014 and he played a considerable number of matches. He was also part of the Royal Challengers Bangalore setup in 2013. 

Bookmarked as one of India's generation next players, it didn't take too long for Rahul to step into the Indian team. He was selected for the Australian tour in 2014-15 on the back of some big runs at domestic level. Rahul sat out of the first two Tests and it was clear that he was a mental wreck when he made his Test debut at the historical Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG). 

Batting at unaccustomed positions, Rahul played two forgettable shots and ended the match with just four runs. Redemption was around the corner and at the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG), he showed remarkable composure, stroking his way to a maiden Test hundred. It was followed by hundreds in Sri Lanka and West Indies, although an injury robbed him of a chance to feature in his first Tests at home when South Africa came visiting, in 2015. 

In a short career so far, there have been two things that one can notice about Rahul. One, he is injury prone and has already missed a fair share of matches. Two, he has a tendency of not getting a start - but once he does get one, goes on and converts it into big knocks. 

2016 might well be the year in which Rahul turned the corner, across all formats of the game. Selected in a weakened ODI team for the 3-match tour of Zimbabwe, the elegant right-handed batsman did his cause no harm, hammering a hundred on debut. The ODI series was after a fine season for the Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), who got him back after a transfer from Sunrisers Hyderabad, in the 2016 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL). 

Rahul's good form for RCB and his runs in West Indies meant he was an automatic selection for the two T20Is that India played against West Indies in Lauderhill, USA. He made a mark immediately, making a hundred on his T20I debut, although it came in a losing cause. 

Rahul finally played in his first home Test, against Ne Zealand in Kanpur, but another injury sidelined him from the rest of the series. He returned against England in the second Test of the five-Test series in Visakhapatnam before the recurrence of his previous injury forced him out of the next match. 

After a failure in Mumbai, Rahul finally scored his first ton at home, in Chennai. He was on course for a maiden double-hundred, until a brain fart left him as only the second Indian batsman to be dismissed on 199. Rahul has finally come off age and with time on his side should go on and have a great career for India.