Mohammed Shami moved to Bengal at the age of 17 to fulfill his cricket dream of representing the country at the international level. He began representing Bengal in First-Class cricket, making his debut against Assam in November 2010 in which he bagged three important wickets. In the following year, he was bought by Kolkata to play in the fourth edition of IPL. 

Shami impressed the selectors after playing just 15 First-Class games and was rewarded his ODI cap in the series against Pakistan in January 2013. A fantastic performance in the 2012-13 Ranji season, where he took 28 wickets in just five games, including two 10-wicket hauls, earned him the spot. Shami made his debut in the final match of the Pakistan series, finishing with economical figures of 1 for 23 in nine overs (including 4 maidens - the most by an Indian bowler on debut) in a low-scoring thriller. He was then selected for Australia's tour to India in October 2013. He played three games in that series and bagged seven wickets. 

His hard-work paid off, when he earned his Test cap against West Indies in October 2013. He had a dream debut, picking up nine wickets for 118 runs in the first Test in Kolkata - setting up a record for the most number of wickets by an Indian pacer on debut. He particularly impressed with the ability to reverse-swing the old ball and was highly praised for his performance. 

Selectors retained their faith in Shami and selected him for both ODI and Test squads for the tour to South Africa in December 2013. He also travelled with the side to New Zealand and did well, picking up 16 wickets overall in four Test matches, including two matches in South Africa. 

Even in the ODIs, he did very well and was retained for the Asia Cup. However, he could get only two games at the 2014 World T20 as Mohit Sharma was preferred over him for the rest of the tournament. 

At the 2014 IPL auctions, he was bought by Delhi for 4.25 crore and was a hot pick as many teams wanted him in their side. He played three matches in the Test series against England in 2014, but failed to impress. 

However, Shami had a great time with the white ball in ODIs in 2014 as he ended the year as the highest wicket-taker across the globe. Shami played three Tests in the 2014-15 Border-Gavaskar Trophy as well and did well in the last two Test matches, picking up 12 wickets. His accuracy and the ability to break partnerships makes him one of the key bowlers for India at the 2015 World Cup. 

Shami led India's bowling attack admirably throughout the World Cup, finishing with 17 wickets. His four-wicket haul against Pakistan broke the back of their batting, and his breakthroughs up front against every other team allowed India to put pressure on their opposition. The only time he went wicketless was against Australia, and India paid heavily for that. 

As 2016 dawned, so did Shami's rise as India's got to bowler, at least in Tests. He was consistent on the tour of West Indies, although he didn't return with a bagful of wickets. While the wicket weren't there, Shami's wholehearted efforts with the ball didn't go unnoticed. he quickly rose amongst the ranks and became India's pace spearhead when New Zealand and England arrived. A total of 18 wickets from six Tests on unresponsive tracks was a decent effort.