Ravichandran Ashwin, India's new spin-spearhead, is now the fastest cricketer in the history of Test cricket to have taken 75 wickets and amassed more than 500 runs. His heroics at Chepauk in the first Test (February 22 - 26, 2013) against Australia earned India a thumping win, also with it, his match figures of 12 for 198 gave him another milestone of becoming the first Indian to take a 10-wicket haul on his home ground. 

Born on 17th September 1986, Ravichandran Ashwin had earlier captivated the Indian audiences with his bowling exploits in the shorter form of the game, but ever since his Test debut against West Indies in 2011, Ashwin has surprised one-and-all with his ability to pick up quality wickets and also sustain the pressure of filling in the boots of Harbhajan Singh, who has found it tough to get back into national colours. 

The fact that he makes valuable contributions down the the order makes him almost a certainty for every match and he already has two Test hundreds (both against West Indies) apart from a few fifties. His batting was flawless even in Australia, where the top-order could never really get going in the 2011-12 series. 

He made his debut for Tamil Nadu against Haryana in Chennai in the 2006-07 season. He has an impressive domestic record, having scalped 134 wickets in 34 appearances for Tamil Nadu. However, he has made a name for himself in the shorter formats of the game, more so in T20 cricket where his accuracy and shrewdness has made him a dependable bowler. 

A consistent season at the domestic level earned Ashwin a grade 'D' contract with the BCCI. He also led Tamil Nadu to victory in the domestic one-day trophy in 2009. When Harbhajan opted out of the first two games against South Africa at home in early 2010, Ashwin was called in as his replacement. He did not get his chance then, but impressive performances for the Chennai franchise in the subsequent edition of the IPL meant that he was always knocking on the door. His chance finally arrived in June 2010 when India rested several of its stars for the tri-nation series featuring hosts Zimbabwe and Sri Lanka. He ended up with figures of 2/50 on his debut against Sri Lanka in Harare. 

Ashwin was included in the Indian squad for the 2011 World Cup, but Dhoni played him in only two games and then surprisingly omitted him in favour of Sreesanth in the final. Ashwin has been consistent in the opportunities that he has got so far and has taken over as the lead spinner in the Test side after the selectors dropped Harbhajan for the Test series against West Indies in 2011. He formed a successful partnership with left-arm spinner Pragyan Ojha, especially in Tests in India. 

Having played for Chennai as a home based player and impressing the team management, Ashwin was bought back by his city franchise after a tough bidding war with the Royal Challengers of Bangalore for a whopping $800,000 in the 2011 IPL auctions. And quite understandably after his very impressive run for India, the BCCI offered him a Grade A contract. 

Ashwin was adjudged the Man of the Series in the Border-Gavaskar Trophy in 2013. He ended the Tests with an impressive tally of 29 wickets and became the third Indian off-spinner to take 25-plus wickets in a series after Harbhajan Singh (32) & EAS Prasanna (26). In the first Test match of the Tendulkar farewell series against West Indies in November 2013, Ashwin got his second Test ton and also put on a record seventh wicket partnership of 280 runs along with Rohit Sharma. In the second game in Mumbai, he became the fastest Indian to reach 100 Test wickets in just 18 matches. 

He was not preferred for Tests in overseas conditions and did not feature in the games in Durban, Auckland and Wellington, respectively. However, he continued to play the limited overs formats and went on to bag 100 wickets in ODIs during the 2014 Asia Cup. Ashwin's clever bowling strategies in the T20 format earned him an extended stint at Chennai as the franchise retained him for the 2014 edition. He also did well for India at the 2014 World T20, bagging 11 wickets in the tournament to top the bowling charts for his side. 

Ashwin played the last two Test matches of the England tour, before playing the ODI series. The selectors then decided to rest him for the home series against West Indies, before bringing him back for the Sri Lanka ODIs. He also played three Test matches in the 2014-15 Border Gavaskar Trophy. 

Ashwin's performance in the 2015 World Cup was greatly appreciated because of his disciplined and accurate bowling. He picked up 13 wickets in the tournament and also registered his best ODI bowling figures of 4/25 against United Arab Emirates. 

While Ashwin was slowly gaining in maturity, it was clear that his best was yet to come. During the tour of Sri Lanka, he mesmerized the hosts and ended with 21 wickets from the series - playing a big hand in India's 2-1 series win, their first in the island nation since 1993. He then followed it up with an excellent home season against South Africa, taking 31 wickets from four Tests. 

2016 turned out to be a watershed year in Ashwin's caeer. He not only earned wickets, but got them using the fine art of deception. His bowling improved vastly, the flight and the guile was back and he was an altogether different beast. West Indies, New Zealand and England found them out in succession. 72 was his haul from just 12 Tests - Ashwin had now turned into a complete all-rounder, handy with the bat and devastating with the ball, enough for him to secure the prestigious ICC Test player of the year award as well as the ICC Player of the year award - becoming only the second Indian after Rahul Dravid to scoop both the awards simultaneously. 