There are two facts about Rohit Sharma that have never been in doubt. Firstly, he is one of the most talented young batsmen that India has produced. Secondly, the talent is only coming through after a frustrating wait that lasted many years. 

Hailed as the heir apparent to Sachin Tendulkar's No.4 spot in the Test batting line-up - he even hails from the same city and played with Tendulkar for Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy - Rohit's batting has had connoisseurs and experts alike shaking their heads with wonder at his balance and the time he has to play his shots, and in bewilderment at his continued failure on the big stage. 

Numbers tell the story of Rohit well: He averages over 50 in First-Class cricket and has scored an unbeaten triple hundred (something that Tendulkar is yet to do). However, he is now reaping the rewards for some dogged work, Rohit has turned a new leaf ever since he was sent in as an opener in the shorter formats of the game. 

Set against that are some performances that spoke undeniably about his talent - for instance against Australia in Australia, in just his third international series, Rohit came up with some crucial cameos and composed fifties under pressure in the CB series in 2008. The other team in the series was Sri Lanka - who had no mean bowling attack - and Rohit impressed everyone with his batting. 

That performance earned him an extended lease in the Indian team for both ODIs and Twenty20s. However, his subsequent performances didn't match up to that level at all (his average was a pedestrian 22 and his strike rate was below 70) and he failed to cement a place in the side. His inconsistency kept him out of the 2011 World Cup squad. 

What kept Rohit in the minds of the public and the selectors was his performance in the IPL. In the first two editions he shone with the bat, making over 350 runs each time, and in the second one, he chipped in with some good performances with the ball too, justifying an expensive price tag of USD 750,000. He was bought by the Mumbai franchise in 2011 and has been one of their finest batsmen. He also went onto make a century for them. 

Call it bad luck or irresponsible, Rohit wasn't able to establish himself on a long term basis in the side in ample opportunities that he was given. It did not help his cause that India had a well-settled middle-order and the queue for any small opening was a pretty big one. He did get a chance to make a statement. He was named in the Test XI that was scheduled to take on South Africa in the first Test of the 2010 home series in Nagpur. Call it a quirk of fate, Rohit injured himself while playing football on the morning of the Test and was subsequently ruled out of the series. 

Rohit's success in the IPL 2011 helped him make a comeback into the ODI squad for the tour of West Indies and for a brief while, it looked like a turning point in his career. He hit three half-centuries in five matches and was the Man of the Series. He seemed to enjoy playing against the West Indies as he scored three more fifties in the home ODI series that followed and won the Man of the Series award again. However, in 2012, a string of poor scores in the CB series in Australia and a horrible tour of Sri Lanka - where he scored 5,0,0,4 and 4 in 5 ODIs - tested the patience of Indian fans. Despite the failures, the team management and the selectors backed Rohit and made him open the innings in an ODI in Mohali against England, and the right-hander responded with a well made 83. 

The move to put Rohit at the top of the order has paid dividends - both from a personal point of view as well as from the team's perspective. He seems to have found a new lease of life and has also formed a robust opening combination with Shikhar Dhawan. His batting has always been termed stylish and he is reputed to be one of the most talented batsmen amongst the young crop of Indians. With his place confirmed, Rohit began to open up and his delightful 209 in the 7th ODI against Australia in Bangalore in 2013 was a testimony to the fact. He became only the third player in ODI history to hit a double ton after Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag. 

With success in the shorter formats of the game, it was only a matter of time before he was to be picked up for the Test squad once again. The retirements of Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman opened up new avenues in the team and Rohit finally made his Test debut against West Indies in the first Test at Eden Gardens in November, 2013. As if to make up for the lost time, Rohit began in a blazing fashion, smashing 177 in his debut innings and lifting India from a precarious situation to a position of immense strength. He followed this ton with another scintillating knock of 111 not out at his home ground in Mumbai, becoming only the second Indian cricketer to score back-to-back centuries in his first two Tests - a feat which was achieved by Sourav Ganguly in 1996 in England. In ODIs, Rohit racked up more than 1,000 runs in 2013. 

However, since December 2013, he couldn't score as much as he did earlier, but has managed to record the occasional fifty in both the Test and the ODI formats to keep his place in the 
side. His outstanding record in the IPL meant that Mumbai franchise retained him as their captain for the 2014 edition as well. 

Rohit played just one Test match in the series against England in 2014 and then unfortunately injured his right middle finger in the 2nd ODI in Cardiff. The injury kept him out of action for a while, but on his return, Rohit became the first player to score two double-hundreds in ODI history. In the fourth ODI at Eden Gardens, Rohit, after being dropped on four, thrashed the Sri Lankan bowlers to all corners and made a sensational 173-ball 264 - the highest ever individual score in ODIs. The selectors named him in the Test squad for the tour of Australia, but he failed to impress with the bat registering just one fifty in six innings. However, Rohit Sharma continues to play a big role for India in limited overs cricket. 

Rohit was the second highest run-scorer for India in the 2015 World Cup scoring a total of 330 runs, which included a ton and two fifties. He smashed a solid 137 against Bangladesh in the quarter-final but failed to capitalize on a good start against Australia in the semi. 
