Suresh Raina burst onto the international scene as a precociously talented 19-year-old during the Greg Chappell regime in 2005. He immediately impressed everyone with his ability to hit the ball cleanly, his range of shots and his temperament. Raina looked set to achieve big, when the wheels of a successful debut came slightly unhinged. 

Instead, in 2006, he struggled. He had a below-par average of 27.77 and a poor strike rate of 69.63. And this was across 26 ODIs he played for India that year. After a poor showing against South Africa towards the end of the year, he was dropped from the team. 

The next year was to be a test of endurance for the still-young Raina, and it was not helped by the fact that he injured himself and was out of cricket for a few months. As he was to later say, it was a very difficult time. Raina was bed-ridden for close to six months and after recovering, Raina took his time to get his touch back. 

The turnaround happened for Raina during the IPL 2008, in which he was bought by the Chennai (CSK) for a high price of USD 650,000. He delivered on his investment, bringing a handsome return of 421 runs at a strike rate of 142.71 with three fifties for his team. That performance helped him get back into the Indian team, and this time around, Raina made much better use of the opportunity he got. 

As the year progressed, Raina slowly crystallized his position in the Indian team for the ODIs, coming up with vital cameos towards the end of the innings or shoring up the innings if wickets had fallen early. He did get a few opportunities up the order too, but with India's top-order comprising of Sachin Tendulkar, Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir and Yuvraj Singh, Raina's main role was always going to be in the lower middle-order. 

Raina may not have had the big numbers in ODIs, but his contributions to the team are tough to be measured by mere stats. For example, his knocks of 34 not out against Australia and 36 not out against Pakistan, in the quarter-final and semi-final of the World Cup 2011, were invaluable to the team. Gary Kirsten, the-then coach of India, said 'Raina won us the World Cup with the knock against Australia'. 

Raina's success in the ODIs led to a spot in the Test team, but he could not produce consistent scores in the longer format. He started his Test career with a bang, by scoring a century on debut against Sri Lanka, but in the 16 Tests that he played after that, he averaged only around 28. 

The 2011 Test series against England exposed Raina's weakness against pace and swing and his failure as a batsman saw him being dropped from the Indian Test squad. However, in the shorter formats of the game, his ability to garner quick runs in death overs and his impeccable fielding has made him a vital member of the ODI and T20 teams. After having an average England tour in 2011, his match-winning knocks against Sri Lanka in 2012 and England in 2013 earned him praise and admiration from many fans. During the home series against England in 2013, Raina smashed 277 runs at an amazing average of 92.33 with four consecutive half-centuries. He also became the 13th Indian batsman to cross 4,000 runs in ODIs and went on to win his first Man of the Series award in this format. 

Raina delivered consistent performances in the IPL for Chennai. CSK retained him in 2011 and he went on to become the only player in IPL history to cross 400 runs in every season. He continued to do well in 2012 as well and became the first player in the history of IPL to cross the mark of 2,000 runs. The same could be said about 2013 in which he accumulated 548 runs and scored his maiden IPL ton against Punjab. 

Raina's form in ODIs since 2013 has not been that great. On the other hand, Raina has been an useful part-time bowler, helpful in providing breakthroughs in the middle overs or keeping things tight at one end and supporting the main bowlers in the team. In the first ODI against West Indies in November 2013, Raina was responsible for picking up three important wickets and restricting the opposition to a modest total. He was given a ticket to tour both South Africa and New Zealand, but he failed to put up an impressive show. Eventually, he was dropped from the squad for the Asia Cup. 

However, after an impressive run in the 2014 IPL, Raina made it back to the ODI side for the tour of Bangladesh in June 2014 and was also named the captain as MS Dhoni was rested. Though he failed with the bat, he was very good as captain and led India to a series win. 

Raina then travelled to England and scored a match-changing 75-ball 100 in Cardiff to help India beat England in the first ODI. The knock drew so much praise that former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly said: 'That was the best knock played by an Indian in overseas conditions.' Eventually, Raina's innings set the tone for the rest of the series and India thumped England by a margin of 3-1. 

When it comes to the T20 format though, Raina is a class apart. Being the highest run-getter in the history of the IPL, Raina is a player that every franchise wants in their side and he was rightly retained by Chennai for the 2014 edition as well. He also had an excellent 2014 Champions League T20, where he scored a scintillating hundred in the final to help CSK win the title for the second time. 

Having had a good run with the bat in the ODI format, India took Raina to Australia with the Test team. He was given an opportunity in the final Test at the SCG, but failed to grab the opportunity as he bagged a pair. 

Suresh Raina had a decent 2015 World Cup. In the opening game against Pakistan, as Kohli was setting the innings up, Raina provided the impetus it needed by blasting 74 off 56 deliveries. Against Zimbabwe, in the last match of the first round, he delivered a century to keep India's record clean and in the quarter-final against Bangladesh, he seized the initiative, yet again, with his 65 runs. He was the fourth highest scorer for India in the tournament. 

There is no gainsaying the fact that Raina has a serious problem against short deliveries and over the years in the limited overs format he has worked out a way to tackle them. In the Tests, the opposition employed the short ball technique and got the better of the UP lad but in the shorter formats with only a bouncer being permitted, Raina could work his way around it. But ever since the two bouncer rule has come into play even in the ODIs, Raina seem to be facing the heat, reluctant to come on the front foot, where his primary game is. The series of poor run has continued for long with a few decent scores in between. He has been an important cog in the Indian middle order and without he being in touch, it looks a bit dodgy. 

His run of poor scores finally resulted in his axing from the Indian ODI team, after a poor showing during the ODI series at home against South Africa, in October, 2015. Raina was then named as the captain of the new IPL franchise, Gujarat Lions, and led the new team to a third place finish in their first ever IPL appearance. 
